cmake-instructions.md, before:

# Build MRtrix3 using CMake

## Requirements
- CMake (>= 3.19)
- A compiler that supports C++17
- Qt >=5.9 (base and OpenGL components)
- Eigen 3
- FFTW
- Ninja (Optional)
- ccache or sccache (Optional)

## Build instructions
1. Clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/mrtrix3/mrtrix3 -b cmake_experimental_shared`
2. Create a build directory and configure cmake:

        $ mkdir build
        $ cmake -B build mrtrix3
    
    If all the required dependencies are installed, `CMake` should correctly configure the project.
    It's highly recommended that you use `Ninja` and `ccache` (or `sccache`) to configure the project,
    to do this run `cmake -G Ninja -D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_LAUNCHER=ccache -B build mrtrix3` instead of
    second step above. This will provide you faster compilations speeds. You can install `Ninja` and 
    `ccache` using your system's package manager (e.g. `brew install ninja ccache` or `apt install ninja ccache`).

    If you wish, we provide some default CMake presets that automatically configure the project using predefined
    settings. You can view the list of available presets in [CMakePresets.json](https://github.com/MRtrix3/mrtrix3/blob/cmake_experimental_shared/CMakePresets.json). To configure the project using a given preset run
    
        $ cmake --preset name_of_configure_preset
    
    in the source directory.

3. Run the build:

        $ cmake --build build

    CMake will build all commands inside your build directory (the executables will be inside `cmd`).
    If you'd like to build just a single command, you can do so by specifying `--target name_of_command`.


## Configure options

You can enable/disable the following options (passing `-D MYOPTION=ON/OFF` to CMake at the configure stage).

- `USE_QT6` to enable building the project using Qt 6.

- `BUILD_GUI` to choose whether you'd like to build the gui commands (e.g. `mrview`).

- `WARNING_AS_ERRORS` for compilation to fail when a compiler warning is generated.

- `BUILD_TESTS` to build tests.


## Testing

This is very much WIP. To run the tests, you need to build the project as described above and then, from the build directory, run `ctest --output-on-failure`.

Each test is prefixed by its category, so binary test names start with `bin_` and unit test names
start with `unit_`.

In order to run a specific set of tests, `ctest` allows you to make use of regex expressions, for example:

        $ ctest -R unit # Runs all unit tests
        $ ctest -R bin # Runs all binary tests
        $ ctest -R bin_5tt2gmwmi # Runs the binary test for the 5tt2gmwmi command
        $ ctest -E unit # Runs all tests, except unit tests

You can also choose to rerun tests have failed by specifying the `--rerun-failed` option. 

See [official documentation for using CTest](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ctest.1.html).

## Known issues

- If you're on MacOS and have installed Qt via brew, you may need to link the correct version of Qt
you intend to use to build MRtrix3. So if for example, you want to use Qt 5 and you have both Qt 5 and Qt 6
installed via brew, you will need to run `brew unlink qt && brew link qt5`.

Commit message:

Upgrade minimum CMake version to 3.21

cmake-instructions.md, after:

# Build MRtrix3 using CMake

## Requirements
- CMake (>= 3.21)
- A compiler that supports C++17
- Qt >=5.9 (base and OpenGL components)
- Eigen 3
- FFTW
- Ninja (Optional)
- ccache or sccache (Optional)

NOTE: If your OS doesn't provide a recent enough version of CMake, you can install it using `pip`:

        $ pip install cmake

Then you can add CMake's installation directory to your `PATH` environment variable (you can check where installed
CMake by `pip show cmake`).
For example, on Ubuntu you can add the following line to your `~/.bashrc`:

        $ export PATH=~/.local/bin:$PATH

## Build instructions
1. Clone the repo: `git clone https://github.com/mrtrix3/mrtrix3 -b cmake_experimental_shared`
2. Create a build directory and configure cmake:

        $ mkdir build
        $ cmake -B build mrtrix3
    
    If all the required dependencies are installed, `CMake` should correctly configure the project.
    It's highly recommended that you use `Ninja` and `ccache` (or `sccache`) to configure the project,
    to do this run `cmake -G Ninja -D CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_LAUNCHER=ccache -B build mrtrix3` instead of
    second step above. This will provide you faster compilations speeds. You can install `Ninja` and 
    `ccache` using your system's package manager (e.g. `brew install ninja ccache` or `apt install ninja ccache`).

    If you wish, we provide some default CMake presets that automatically configure the project using predefined
    settings. You can view the list of available presets in [CMakePresets.json](https://github.com/MRtrix3/mrtrix3/blob/cmake_experimental_shared/CMakePresets.json). To configure the project using a given preset run
    
        $ cmake --preset name_of_configure_preset
    
    in the source directory.

3. Run the build:

        $ cmake --build build

    CMake will build all commands inside your build directory (the executables will be inside `cmd`).
    If you'd like to build just a single command, you can do so by specifying `--target name_of_command`.


## Configure options

You can enable/disable the following options (passing `-D MYOPTION=ON/OFF` to CMake at the configure stage).

- `USE_QT6` to enable building the project using Qt 6.

- `BUILD_GUI` to choose whether you'd like to build the gui commands (e.g. `mrview`).

- `WARNING_AS_ERRORS` for compilation to fail when a compiler warning is generated.

- `BUILD_TESTS` to build tests.


## Testing

This is very much WIP. To run the tests, you need to build the project as described above and then, from the build directory, run `ctest --output-on-failure`.

Each test is prefixed by its category, so binary test names start with `bin_` and unit test names
start with `unit_`.

In order to run a specific set of tests, `ctest` allows you to make use of regex expressions, for example:

        $ ctest -R unit # Runs all unit tests
        $ ctest -R bin # Runs all binary tests
        $ ctest -R bin_5tt2gmwmi # Runs the binary test for the 5tt2gmwmi command
        $ ctest -E unit # Runs all tests, except unit tests

You can also choose to rerun tests have failed by specifying the `--rerun-failed` option. 

See [official documentation for using CTest](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/ctest.1.html).

## Known issues

- If you're on MacOS and have installed Qt via brew, you may need to link the correct version of Qt
you intend to use to build MRtrix3. So if for example, you want to use Qt 5 and you have both Qt 5 and Qt 6
installed via brew, you will need to run `brew unlink qt && brew link qt5`.
